My name's Keats Webb and I'm an Imaging Scientist
at the Smithsonian Museum's Conservation Institute:
a support center for all of the Smithsonian units,
the museum's, galleries, archives, the National Zoo
and also the other research centers.
And we're providing conservation, technical studies
and scientific research to research
and care for the Smithsonian collections.
As an imaging scientist, I am using a variety of techniques,
cameras, radiation sources, filters,
different setups in order
to look at objects in different ways.
And so we can use these techniques to record the condition
of an object, increase our understanding of the materials,
the manufacturer, and also help to inform the care
and treatment of those objects.
One of the benefits of imaging
is that it's a non-invasive technique
and it's giving you a full view of the objects.
Some of the other scientific analytical techniques
require a sample, or they're point-based,
so you're only looking at a single point
on the entire object.
And imaging's giving you a non-invasive view
of the full object.
Visible light is kind of the starting point with imaging
'cause that's gonna give us information
about the color of the object.
It can give us information about the current condition
of the object, if there's fading,
different types of degradation
that may show up within the visible range or through color.
And so that's a really good starting point
and that's also gonna act as a reference image
for us when we start to look at different wave bands
that we might not be able to see with our eyes.
If we think about a very simplified structure
of a painting, the top layer is gonna be a varnish layer
that's gonna be clear to us
and we're gonna be able to see through it
and see that paint layer.
But that's a protective surface
that is on many paintings.
If you irradiate that painting with UV radiation,
we're gonna be seeing that top surface -
so the UV radiation doesn't go through that.
Reflected UV can be useful
for identifying past conservation treatments
'cause the conservation treatments
are gonna use different materials from the original object.
And because UV, the shorter wavelengths of UV
are not necessarily penetrating the surface
of the object, we're seeing that top surface of the object.
And so, with a painting that may be the varnish layer
that we're able to record.
UV-induced visible luminescence
is using a UV radiation source to radiate an object.
And some materials will absorb
that radiation and readmit it as longer wavelengths.
And we're able to see that as luminescence
or fluorescence of the object.
And this is particularly useful for adhesives and coatings
and varnishes, as those tend to luminesce.
And so you can see the difference
in how that conservation treatment shows up
with UV radiation in contrast to the luminescence
of the varnish.
This is a test chart that a paintings conservator made
to look at varnishes and resin.
As it is right now we see,
you know, yellow and orange tones.
We're not seeing huge differences
but we're seeing some variation in that.
But with the UV radiation,
it starts to show pretty large color differences.
And so we have a bunch of different types
of shellac along the bottom.
The characteristic luminescence of shellac
tends to be a bright orange,
which we're seeing with several of these.
But we also have some additional shellacs
that are showing purple and blue luminescence.
And so having this option of being able to look at an object
with the UV radiation source can help a conservator think
about what may need to be done to care for
or treat an object.
Pigments were made at different periods of time
and we have an understanding of when those were introduced
and commercially used.
And so having information about what pigments are
in an object can can help provide information
about when and where that object might have been made.
And so I'm gonna use a filter that blocks visible light
and passes infrared radiation.
So we can't see through it
because we can't see into the infrared.
Reflected infrared is used quite widely
for paintings conservation because there are materials
that will transmit infrared radiation.
So you're seeing past that top painted layer
and you can start to see earlier versions of the painting
or even some under drawings.
This is a historic paper document
that has three different types of ink on it.
So it's really interesting to look at
with the different wavelengths
'cause those inks are gonna respond differently
because it's a historic document.
It also has kind of different condition features
that show up differently with the different wavelengths.
So this is a visible light image
of this historic paper document.
We can see a red ink and a black ink
and then a little bit further down we see some handwriting
and that's in a brownish ink.
So this is the visible light of that handwritten piece
with that brownish ink,
we can turn on the UV induced visible luminescence image
and we see that that's really strongly absorbing
that UV radiation.
And then switching to the reflected infrared,
we see that that almost entirely disappears
within that infrared image.
And seeing that it absorbs UV radiation
and disappears within the infrared suggests
that it's iron gall ink,
which would be kind of used during that time.
And we know that those are the characteristics
of that particular ink
that's different from the printed black ink
that's still visible within the reflected infrared image.
We're seeing that those are different inks.
There would need to be additional analysis to confirm
that that is an iron gall ink.
Imaging is a really good option
for starting an investigation for
of an object to learn more about it.
It is non-destructive and it also offers this overall view
and that can be really important
for informing the conservation of the object,
but also informing additional scientific analysis
and additional study of the object.
It can be used for identifying areas
where you might wanna do point-based analysis
or even take samples that will help build up
that kind of multi-analytical approach
for looking at an object.
There's a lot of exciting things that can be done
with imaging and the processing of imaging.
There's also an incredible opportunity to be collaborating
with people throughout the institution.
It's incredible to work with them,
to be able to learn from them,
there's just a lot of potential there.
(upbeat music)